edits and comments on heuristics chapter (#74)
drvinceknight/amwoss: src/chapters/09/main.tex

% Introduction
\chapterinitial{I}{t} is often necessary to find the most desirable choice from
a large, or indeed, infinite set of options. Sometimes this can be done using
exact techniques but often this is not possible and finding an almost perfect
choice quickly is just as good. This is where the field of heuristics comes in
to play.

\section{Problem}\label{sec:problem}

> Consider a delivery company needs to deliver goods to 13 different stops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A delivery company needs to deliver goods to 13 different stops.
```

> They needs to find a route for a driver to traverse that stops at each of stops

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They need to find a route for a driver that stops at each of the stops
```

once only, then returns to the first stop, the depot.

> The stops are represented spatially in Figure~\ref{fig:tsp}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stops are drawn in Figure~\ref{fig:tsp}.
```

\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \includegraphics[width=.8\textwidth]{./assets/tsp/main.pdf}
    \end{center}

>     \caption{Spacial representation of the required stops.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \caption{The positions of the required stops.}
```

    \label{fig:tsp}
\end{figure}

The relevant information is the pairwise distances between each of the stops,
which is given by the distance matrix in equation (\ref{eqn:tsp}).

\tiny{
    \input{./assets/tsp/main.tex}
}
\normalsize

> The value \(d\) gives the travel distance between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The value \(d_{ij}\) gives the travel distance between
```

stops \(i\) and \(j\). For example, \(d_{23}=67\) % TODO If the distance matrix changes, this value need to be updated
indicates that the distance between the 2nd and 3rd stop in the route is 67. % TODO If the distance matrix changes, this value need to be updated

> % Given these parameters, we aim to find a \emph{sufficiently good} set of
> % itineraries that gives a low total amount of travel.
> 
> % The emphasis on needing a good solution, but not necessarily the best one,
> % prioritising computational efficiency is where the field of heuristics comes in
> % to its own.
> 
> % These paragraphs are not relevant to the problem, they comment on the solution method. I have moved them and reworded them slightly into the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The delivery company would like to find the route around the 13 stops that gives
the smallest overall travel distance.

\section{Theory}\label{sec:theory}

> This is an example of what is known as the Travelling Salesman Problem, %TODO add footnote reference
> and can be considered too complex to solve using exact methods.
> Heuristics are a family of methods that can be used to find a find a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This problem is called a travelling salesman problem, which can 
often be inefficient to solve using exact methods.
%TODO add footnote reference
Heuristics are a family of methods that can be used to find a find a
```

\emph{sufficiently good} solution, though not necessarily the optimal solution,
where the emphasis is on prioritising computational efficiency.

The heuristic approach taken here will be to use a neighbourhood search algorithm.
This algorithm works by considering a given potential solution, evaluating it
and then trying another potential solution \emph{close} to it. What \emph{close}
means depends on different approaches and problems: it is referred to as the

> neighbourhood. When new solution is considered \emph{good} (this is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
neighbourhood. When a new solution is considered \emph{good} (this is
```

again a term that depends on the approach and problem) then the search
continues from the neighbourhood of this new solution.

> For this problem, first represent a possible solution, that is a given route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this problem, the steps are to first represent a possible solution, that is a given route
```

827
\end{pyout}

> Now a function for neighbourhood operator will now be written,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now a function for neighbourhood operator will be written,
```

print(solution_with_swap_stops)
\end{pyin}

gives:

\begin{pyout}
[0, 7, 2, 8, 5, 3, 1, 9, 12, 11, 4, 10, 6, 0]
\end{pyout}

This has a cost:

\begin{pyin}
cost = get_cost(
    tour=solution_with_swap_stops,
    distance_matrix=distance_matrix,
)
print(cost)
\end{pyin}

\begin{pyout}
362
\end{pyout}

> Therefore, using this particular algorithm, a pretty good route it found, with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, using this particular algorithm, a pretty good route is found, with a
```

total distance of 362.

> It is important to note that this may not be the optimal route, and tweaking the
> algorithm slightly may produce better solutions.
> For example, one way to do this is to use a different neighbourhood operator.
> One example is instead of swapping two stop, revering the path between those two
> stops. The \mintinline{python}{reverse_path} function does this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that this may not be the optimal route, and different algorithms
may produce better solutions.
For example, one way to modify the algorithm is to use a different neighbourhood operator.
Instead of swapping two stops, reverse the path between those two
stops. The \mintinline{python}{reverse_path} function does this:
```

    stops.

    Args:
        tour: A given tuple of successive stops.

    Returns:
        A tour
    """
    number_of_stops = len(tour) - 1
    i, j = sorted(
        np.random.choice(range(1, number_of_stops), 2)
    )
    new_tour = tour[:i] + tour[i : j + 1][::-1] + tour[j + 1 :]
    return new_tour
\end{pyin}

Applying this neighbourhood operator to the initial candidate gives:

\begin{pyin}
print(reverse_path(initial_candidate))
\end{pyin}

which reverses the order between the 3rd and the 11th stop:

\begin{pyout}
[0, 7, 4, 10, 8, 2, 9, 3, 11, 5, 12, 1, 6, 0]
\end{pyout}

Now running the neighbourhood search for 1000 iterations using the
\mintinline{python}{reverse_path} neighbourhood operator, which corresponds to
an algorithm called the ``2 opt'' algorithm: %TODO add footnote reference

\begin{pyin}
solution_with_reverse_path = run_neighbourhood_search(
    distance_matrix=distance_matrix,
    number_of_stops=number_of_stops,
    iterations=number_of_iterations,
    seed=seed,
    neighbourhood_operator=reverse_path,
)
print(solution_with_reverse_path)
\end{pyin}

gives:

\begin{pyout}
[0, 8, 5, 3, 1, 9, 12, 11, 4, 10, 6, 2, 7, 0]
\end{pyout}

> This is now gives a different route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This now gives a different route.
```

299
\end{pyout}

> an improvement on the solution found using the \mintinline{python}{swap_stops}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This improves on the solution found using the \mintinline{python}{swap_stops}
```

operator. Figure~\ref{fig:final-tsp-tours-python} shows the final obtained
routes given by both approaches.

\begin{figure}
    \begin{center}
        \includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{./assets/final-tsp-tours-with-python/main.pdf}
    \end{center}
    \caption{The final tours obtained by using the neighbourhood search in
    Python.}
    \label{fig:final-tsp-tours-python}
\end{figure}
% TODO Can these plots be squares? to correspond easier with the initial plot of the stop locations. Same with R below.

\section{Solving with R}\label{sec:solving-with-R}

> To solve this problem using R functions will be written that match the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To solve this problem using R, functions will be written that match the
```

 [1]  0  9  4  7  1  2  5  3  8  6 11 12 10  0
\end{Rout}

To be able to evaluate any given tour its cost must be found. Here

> \mintinline{R}{get_cost} to do this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\mintinline{R}{get_cost}  does this:
```

[1] 709
\end{Rout}

> Now a function for neighbourhood operator will now be written,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now a function for a neighbourhood operator will be written,
```

> \mintinline{R}{swap_stops}, that swaps two stops in a given tour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\mintinline{R}{swap_stops}: swapping two stops in a given tour.
```

print(solution_with_swap_stops)
\end{Rin}

gives:

\begin{Rout}
 [1]  0 11  4 10  6  2  7  8  5  3  1  9 12  0
\end{Rout}

This has a cost:

\begin{Rin}
cost <- get_cost(
    tour = solution_with_swap_stops,
    distance_matrix = distance_matrix
)
print(cost)
\end{Rin}

which gives:

\begin{Rout}
[1] 373
\end{Rout}

> Therefore, using this particular algorithm, a pretty good route it found, with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, using this particular algorithm, a pretty good route is found, with a
```

total distance of 373.

> It is important to note that this may not be the optimal route, and tweaking the
> algorithm slightly may produce better solutions.
> For example, one way to do this is to use a different neighbourhood operator.
> One example is instead of swapping two stop, revering the path between those two
> stops. The \mintinline{R}{reverse_path} function does this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that this may not be the optimal route, and different algorithms
 may produce better solutions.
For example, one way to modify the algorithm is to use a different neighbourhood operator.
Instead of swapping two stops, reverse the path between those two
stops. The \mintinline{R}{reverse_path} function does this:
```

\begin{Rin}
#' Return a new tour by reversing the path between two stops.
#'
#' @param tour A given vector of successive stops.
#'
#' @return A tour
reverse_path <- function(tour){
    number_of_stops <- length(tour) - 1
    stops_to_swap <- sort(sample(2:number_of_stops, 2))
    i <- stops_to_swap[1]
    j <- stops_to_swap[2]
    new_order <- c(
            c(1: (i - 1)),
            c(j:i),
            c( (j + 1): length(tour))
            )
    tour[new_order]
    }
\end{Rin}

Applying this neighbourhood operator to the initial candidate gives:

\begin{Rin}
print(reverse_path(initial_candidate))
\end{Rin}

which reverses the order

> between the 8th and the 9th stop:

Reviewer: Change the original seed so an actual reversal is visible.

print(solution_with_reverse_path)
\end{Rin}

gives:

\begin{Rout}
 [1]  0  8  5  3  1  9 12 11  4 10  6  2  7  0
\end{Rout}

> This is now gives a different route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This now gives a different route.
```

[1] 299
\end{Rout}

> an improvement on the solution found using the \mintinline{R}{swap_stops}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an improvement on the solution found using the \mintinline{R}{swap_stops}
```
